{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.15063}{\*\mmathPr\mnaryLim0\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0\fs24 README FILE FOR SPIM, XSPIM, PCSPIM, and QTSPIM \par
\b0\par
This directory contains SPIM--an assembly language MIPS32 simulator.\par
\par
SPIM is Copyright (c) 1990-2017, by James R. Larus.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
SPIM is distributed under a BSD license:\par
\par
     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
     Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
     Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials is provided with the distribution.\par
\par
     Neither the name of the James R. Larus nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
     THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
QtSPIM is linked to the Qt library, which is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License version 3 and GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1.\par
\par
GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\li720 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html }}{\fldrslt{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\nowidctlpar GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\li720 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html }}{\fldrslt{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\b GETTING SPIM SOURCE\par
\b0\par
Spim is hosted on SourceForge and its source code is available through SVN:\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\li720 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/ }}{\fldrslt{https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\par
\b DIRECTORIES\par
\b0\par
The subdirectories can be divided into two categories.\par
\par
1. Common to all versions of Spim:\par
\par
    CPU -- Contains the MIPS simulator and some utility functions common to all version of the simulator.\par
\par
    Documentation -- Contains the man pages, web page, and other documentation.\par
\par
    bin -- Utilities.\par
\par
    Setup -- Contain tools used to build deployable versions of the simulators.\par
\par
    Tests -- Contains regression test for the simulator.\par
\par
\par
2. Front-ends for different versions of Spim:\par
\par
    PCSpim -- Microsoft Windows front end for Spim. [Obsolete]\par
\par
    QtSpim -- Preferred front end for Spim that works on Microsoft Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X.\par
\par
    spim -- Text-only (terminal or console) front end for Spim. Works on all platforms.\par
\par
    xspim -- X-Windows front end for Spim. Works on Linux and Mac OS X. (Built on a very old X Windows library that is no longer supported by the Mac.) [Obsolete]\par
\par
\par
\b BUILDING QTSPIM\par
\b0\par
It is generally not necessary to build QtSpim as the Spim website contains an installable version for most systems.\par
\par
Install the bison parser generator and flex lexer generator, either using Cygwin on Windows or native version on Linux and OS X.\par
\par
1. Download the free (open source) version of Qt Creator from {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://qt.io }}{\fldrslt{http://qt.io\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 . This is a large download that might take a while.\par
   I have been using version 5.5, though any of the version 5.x should work fine. The 4.x releases will cause problems because of incompatible changes to the libraries.\par
\par
        The open source version of Qt Creator for Windows, which uses mingw, works fine, as does the version that uses Microsoft Visual Studio's C++ compiler.\par
\par
        The Qt Creator package for Ubuntu is typically several releases behind, which can cause some problems with QtSPIM. Download a recent version from {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://qt.io }}{\fldrslt{http://qt.io\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\par
2. Start QtCreator and configure the project to use whichever compilers are available on your system. gcc, llvm, and mdvc all work, though some of them generate some warnings at high optimization levels (yes, I should fix them).\par
\par
3. Build QtSpim.\par
\par
        If you are porting to a new system and see a large number of compiler errors in QtCreator, changes are good that you need to change QtSpim.pro to define the compiler flag that says "treat all files, including .c files, as C++ code. This flag is "-X C++" for gcc and "-TP" for the Microsoft compiler.\par
\par
4. Packaging QtSpim for distribution is a complex, OS-specific operation. The Setup directory contains the files for all three platforms. \par
\par
\tab On OS X, you need to run the script bin/release-osx and use the free Packages tool ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://s.sudre.free.fr/Software/Packages/about.html }}{\fldrslt{http://s.sudre.free.fr/Software/Packages/about.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ).\par
\par
\tab On Windows,you need a copy of Visual Studio and the free version of WiX.\par
\par
\tab On Linux, the script bin/release-debian handles the entire process.\par
\par
On all three systems, the packaged version of QtSpim includes all of the libraries and plugins used by QtSpim and assistant (the Qt help file viewer). Previously, the Linux used dependencies to bring in other packages that contained these libraries, but I cannot find the packages that contain all of these files for Qt5, so it is easier just to redistribute everything.\par
\par
\par
\b BUILDING SPIM and XSPIM\par
\b0\par
It is necessary to build spim and xspim, as they are only distributed as source.\par
\par
   1. Download the source for spimsimulator from sourceforge {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/ }}{\fldrslt{https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ), either through Subversion from the spimsimulator repository  ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://spimsimulator.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/spimsimulator/ }}{\fldrslt{http://spimsimulator.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/spimsimulator/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ) or by downloading a tarball ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://spimsimulator.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/spimsimulator/?view=tar }}{\fldrslt{http://spimsimulator.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/spimsimulator/?view=tar\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ).\par
\par
   2. Decompress the file, using either the program uncompress for the first file or gzip for the second file:\par
\par
          % uncompress spim.tar.Z\par
\par
      or\par
\par
          % gzip -d spim.tar.gz\par
\par
   3. Move the file spim.tar to the directory in which you want to build spim and untar it:\par
\par
          % tar xf spim.tar\par
\par
      It will create a directory named spim-8.0 (or the most recent version number).\par
\par
   4. The simple terminal interface is contained in the spim-8.0/spim directory and the X-windows interfaces is in the spim-8.0/xspim directory. The other directories are described in the README file.\par
\par
   5. Next, you must set the directories in which spim will be installed by editing the Makefile (the file that contains instructions on building spim). In general, if you are installing spim and want the windowing version (xspim), edit the file xspim/Imakefile. If you don't want xspim or are running on a system without X-windows installed, you use the file spim/Makefile.\par
\par
      The programs are installed in standard locations, but you can change the pathnames to other locations:\par
\par
          EXCEPTION_DIR -- The full pathname of the directory in which to install the spim exception handler (exceptions.s).\par
\par
          BIN_DIR -- The full pathname of the directory in which spim and xspim should be installed.\par
\par
          MAN_DIR -- The full pathname of the directory in which the manual pages for spim and xspim should be installed.\par
\par
      In general, the remaining parameters in a Makefile need not be changed.\par
\par
   6. Then, if you are building xspim, change to the spim-8.0/xspim directory and type:\par
\par
          % xmkmf\par
          % make\par
\par
      If you do not have a copy of xmkmf, you can use the Makefile in the xspim directory, but beware that it may not work on your system because the paths to the X windows libraries could be different.\par
\par
   7. If you do not have X-windows, change to thespim-8.0/spim directory, edit Makefile, and type:\par
\par
          % make\par
\par
   8. To run spim or xspim, the exception handler must be installed in the directory specified by the variable EXCEPTION_DIR in the Makefile. If the file exception.s is not installed, spim and xspim fail before they start running. You can either install this file by hand or by typing:\par
\par
          % make install\par
\par
   which also installs spim or xspim, and the manual pages in the directories that you set (above). You may need root permission to install these files, in which case type:\par
\par
          % sudo make install\par
\par
   9. To test that spim is correctly built, change to the spim-8.0/spim directory and type:\par
\par
          % make test\par
\par
      and examine the output of the test. (Note: the exception handler must be installed before running the test.)\par
\par
\par
\b BUILDING PCSPIM\par
\b0\par
It is not necessary to compile PCSpim (the Microsoft Windows version), as the Spim web site\par
contains a precompiled version.\par
\par
The Microsoft Windows version of Spim is called PCSpim and is built using Microsoft Visual\par
Studio.\par
\par
spim (the terminal version) works well on Microsoft Windows. You can easily build it using the Cygwin port of the GNU tools (see {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cygwin.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 www.cygwin.com}}}}\f0\fs24 ).\par
\par
\par
\b NEW VERSIONS OF SPIM\par
\b0\par
I generally release new version of SPIM once a year, before a semester boundary (late August or early January). The new versions are available on:\par
\par
\tab\tab {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/ }}{\fldrslt{https://sourceforge.net/projects/spimsimulator/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
\par
}
 